# Research Reproduction

This repository contains reproduction of parts of research papers in order to familiarize myself
with regression concepts in quantitive economics.

### Application of Fixed Effects and Legislator Voting Patterns

Reproduced parts from Ebonya Washington's paper, "Female Socialization: How Daughters Affect their
Legislator Father's voting on Women's Issues," published in the *American Economic Review* in 2008.

The research estimates the causal effect of daughters on voting patterns of legislatures by using
the total number of children as fixed effects to control for family size and isolate the impact of
daughters on voting patterns.

### Application of Instrumental Variables

Reproduced parts from Elizabeth Ananat's paper, "The Wrong Side(s) of the Tracks: The Causal
Effects of Racial Segregation on Urban Poverty and Inequality," published in the *American
Economic Journal: Applied Economics* in 2011.

The research shows the causal effect of racial segregation on urban poverty and inequality. The
study uses railroad development index as an instrumental variable to bypass the problem of omitted
variable bias.

### Difference in Difference

Reproduced parts from Lucas Davis' paper, "The Effect of Health Risk on Housing Values: Evidence
from a Cancer Cluster," published in the *American Economic Review* in 2004.

This research estimates the causal effect of a cancer cluster in a county on its housing prices.
The regression technique used is ‘Difference in Difference’ to assess the differential impact of
the cancer cluster on the affected county compared to a similar county that had parallel trends
prior to the cancer cluster.

### Randomized Control Trials

Reproduced parts from Bryan, Chowdhury, and Mobarak's paper, "Underinvestment in a Profitable
Technology: the Case of Seasonal Migration in Bangladesh," published in *Econometrica* in 2014.

The research estimates the causal effect of providing subsidies to a drought affected village in
Bangladesh on the likelihood of migration to the city. The research technique used in RCT
(Randomized control trials) to compare the migration rates between randomly chosen treated
population (villagers that were offered subsidy) vs untreated population.

### Regression Discontinuities

Reproduced parts from Manacorda, Miguel, & Vigorito's paper, "Government Transfers and Political
Support," published in the *American Economic Journal: Applied Economics* in 2011.

This research shows the causal effect between government transfers to low-income households and
their support to the government in elections. The research technique used is regression
discontinuities (sharp RD) where below a certain threshold the entire population is treated
(i.e. offered government subsidy) creating a clear treatment group and control group to estimate
the causal effect.
